README.md, before:

PhotoPrism: Browse Your Life in Pictures
========================================

[![License: AGPL](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL-blue.svg)](https://docs.photoprism.app/license/agpl/)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/photoprism/photoprism.svg)](https://www.photoprism.app/about/team)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/read-the%20docs-4aa087.svg)](https://docs.photoprism.app/)
[![Community Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20gitter-4aa087.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/chat)
[![GitHub Discussions](https://img.shields.io/badge/ask-%20on%20github-4d6a91.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-@photoprism_app-00acee.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/twitter)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/badge/join-/r/photoprism-EC5800.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit)

PhotoPrism® is an AI-Powered Photos App for the [Decentralized Web](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized_web).
It makes use of the latest technologies to tag and find pictures automatically without getting in your way.
You can run it at home, on a private server, or in the cloud.

![](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/ui/desktop-1000px.jpg)

To get a first impression, you are welcome to play with our [public demo](https://try.photoprism.app/). Be careful not to upload any private pictures.

## Feature Overview ##

**Our mission is to provide the most user- and privacy-friendly solution to keep your pictures organized and accessible.** That's why PhotoPrism was built from the ground up to run wherever you need it, without compromising freedom, privacy, or functionality:

* Browse [all your photos](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/organize/browse/) and [videos](https://try.photoprism.app/library/videos) without worrying about [RAW conversion, duplicates or video formats](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/settings/library/)
* Easily find specific pictures using [powerful search filters](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=flower%20color%3Ared)
* Recognizes [the faces of your family and friends](https://try.photoprism.app/library/people)
* [Automatic classification](https://try.photoprism.app/library/labels) of pictures based on their content and location
* [Play Live Photos](https://try.photoprism.app/library/live) by hovering over them in [albums](https://try.photoprism.app/library/albums) and [search results](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=type%3Alive)
* Since the [User Interface](https://try.photoprism.app/) is a [Progressive Web App](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps),
  it provides a native app-like experience, and you can conveniently install it on the home screen of all major operating systems and mobile devices
* Includes four high-resolution [World Maps](https://try.photoprism.app/library/places) to bring back the memories of your favorite trips
* Metadata is extracted and merged from Exif, XMP, and other sources such as Google Photos
* Many more image properties like [Colors](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=color:red), [Chroma](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=mono%3Atrue), and [Quality](https://try.photoprism.app/library/review) can be searched as well
* Use [PhotoSync](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync) to securely backup iOS and Android phones in the background
* WebDAV clients such as Microsoft's Windows Explorer and Apple's Finder [can connect directly](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/) to PhotoPrism, allowing you to open, edit, and delete files from your computer as if they were local

Being completely [**self-funded and independent**](https://link.photoprism.app/membership), we can promise you that we will [never sell your data](https://www.photoprism.app/privacy) and that we will [always be transparent](https://www.photoprism.app/terms) about our software and services. Your data will never be shared with Google, Amazon, Microsoft or Apple unless you intentionally upload files to one of their services. 🔒

## Getting Started ##
<img align="right" width="25%" src="https://www.photoprism.app/user/pages/01.home/03._screenshots/iphone-maps-hybrid-540px.png">

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted [community edition](https://www.photoprism.app/get) can be found 
on [docs.photoprism.app](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/) -
all you need is a Web browser and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to run the server. 
It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows.

The [stable version](https://docs.photoprism.app/release-notes/) and development 
preview have been built into a single [multi-arch image](https://link.photoprism.app/docker-hub) for 64-bit AMD, Intel,
and ARM processors. That means, [Raspberry Pi](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/raspberry-pi/) 3 / 4 owners can pull 
from the same repository, enjoy the exact same functionality, and can follow the regular 
[installation instructions](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/docker-compose/) 
after going through a short list of [requirements](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/raspberry-pi/).

Existing users are advised to update their `docker-compose.yml` config based on our examples
available at [dl.photoprism.app/docker](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/).

## Support Our Mission 💎 ##

**PhotoPrism is 100% self-funded and independent.** Your [continued support](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) helps us [provide more features to the public](https://www.photoprism.app/oss/faq#what-functionality-is-generally-available), release [regular updates](https://docs.photoprism.app/release-notes/), and remain independent!

Our sponsors enjoy additional features, including access to [interactive world maps](https://try.photoprism.app/library/places), and can join our private chat room to connect with [our team](https://www.photoprism.app/about/team) and other sponsors. We currently have the following sponsorship options:

- [GitHub Sponsors](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsor) is priced in USD and also offers [one-time donations](https://link.photoprism.app/donate)
- [Patreon](https://link.photoprism.app/patreon) is priced in Euro and also offers yearly payments
- Stripe will be available this year, so you can sign up directly in the app

You are welcome to [contact us](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) for change requests, account details, and business partnerships.

[Become a Sponsor ›](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) [Contact Us ›](https://www.photoprism.app/contact)

### Why Your Support Matters ###

- Your continued support helps us provide regular updates and remain independent, so we can fulfill our mission and protect your privacy
- Sustained funding is key to quickly releasing new features requested by you and other community members
- Being self-funded and independent, we can personally promise you that we will never sell your data and that we will always be transparent about our software and services

Please also leave [a star](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/stargazers) on GitHub if you like this project. It provides additional motivation to keep going.

**A big thank you to all current and past sponsors, whose generous support has been and continues to be essential to the success of the project!**

[View Sponsors ›](SPONSORS.md) [View Credits ›](https://docs.photoprism.app/credits/)

## Getting Support ##

Visit [docs.photoprism.app/user-guide](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/) to learn how to [sync](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/), [organize](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/), and [share](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/share/) your pictures. If you need help installing our software at home, you can [join us on Reddit](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit), ask in our [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat), or post your question in [GitHub Discussions](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions).

Common problems can be quickly diagnosed and solved using the [Troubleshooting Checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in [Getting Started](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/). Eligible [sponsors](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) are also welcome to [email us for technical support](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) and personalized advice.

## Upcoming Features and Enhancements ##

Our [Project Roadmap](https://link.photoprism.app/roadmap) shows what tasks are in progress and what features will be implemented next. You are invited to give ideas you like a thumbs-up, so we know what's most popular.

Be aware that we have a zero-bug policy and do our best to help users when they need support or have other questions. This comes at a price though, as we can't give exact release dates for new features. Our team receives many more requests than can be implemented, so we want to emphasize that we are in no way obligated to implement the features, enhancements, or other changes you request. We do, however, appreciate your feedback and carefully consider all requests.

**Because sustained funding is key to quickly releasing new features, we encourage you to support our mission by [signing up as a sponsor](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsor) or purchasing a [commercial license](https://www.photoprism.app/teams). Ultimately, that's what's best for the product and the community.**

## GitHub Issues ⚠️ ##

We kindly ask you not to report bugs via GitHub Issues **unless you are certain to have found a fully reproducible and previously unreported issue** that must be fixed directly in the app. Thank you for your careful consideration!

- When reporting a problem, always include the software versions you are using and other information about your environment such as [browser, browser plugins](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/browsers/), operating system, [storage type](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#storage), [memory size](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#memory), and [processor](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#server-cpu)
- Note that all issue **subscribers receive an email notification** from GitHub whenever a new comment is added, so these should only be used for sharing important information and not for discussions, questions or expressing personal opinions
- [Contact us](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) or [a community member](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions) if you need help, it could be a local configuration problem, or a misunderstanding in how the software works
- This gives our team the opportunity to [improve the docs](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) and provide best-in-class support to you, instead of handling unclear/duplicate bug reports or triggering a flood of notifications by responding to comments

## Connect with the Community ##

Follow us on [Twitter](https://link.photoprism.app/twitter) and join the [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat)
to get regular updates, connect with other users, and discuss your ideas. Our [Code of Conduct](https://www.photoprism.app/code-of-conduct) explains the "dos and don’ts" when interacting with other community members.

Feel free to contact us at [hello@photoprism.app](mailto:hello@photoprism.app) with anything that is on your mind. We appreciate your feedback! Due to the high volume of emails we receive, our team may be unable to get back to you immediately. We do our best to respond within five business days or less.

## Every Contribution Makes a Difference ##

We welcome [contributions](CONTRIBUTING.md) of any kind, including blog posts, tutorials, testing, writing documentation, and pull requests. Our [Developer Guide](https://docs.photoprism.app/developer-guide/) contains all the information necessary for you to get started.

----

*PhotoPrism® is a [registered trademark](https://www.photoprism.app/trademark). By using the software and services we provide, you agree to our [Terms of Service](https://www.photoprism.app/terms), [Privacy Policy](https://www.photoprism.app/privacy), and [Code of Conduct](https://www.photoprism.app/code-of-conduct). Docs are [available](https://link.photoprism.app/github-docs) under the [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/); [additional terms](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/assets/README.md) may apply.*

Commit message:

Docs: Change the wording from "sponsors" to "members"
see https://twitter.com/photoprism_app/status/1641105072292605954

Signed-off-by: Michael Mayer <michael@photoprism.app>

README.md, after:

PhotoPrism: Browse Your Life in Pictures
========================================

[![License: AGPL](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL-blue.svg)](https://docs.photoprism.app/license/agpl/)
[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/photoprism/photoprism.svg)](https://www.photoprism.app/about/team)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/read-the%20docs-4aa087.svg)](https://docs.photoprism.app/)
[![Community Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20gitter-4aa087.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/chat)
[![GitHub Discussions](https://img.shields.io/badge/ask-%20on%20github-4d6a91.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-@photoprism_app-00acee.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/twitter)
[![Reddit](https://img.shields.io/badge/join-/r/photoprism-EC5800.svg)](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit)

PhotoPrism® is an AI-Powered Photos App for the [Decentralized Web](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralized_web).
It makes use of the latest technologies to tag and find pictures automatically without getting in your way.
You can run it at home, on a private server, or in the cloud.

![](https://dl.photoprism.app/img/ui/desktop-1000px.jpg)

To get a first impression, you are welcome to play with our [public demo](https://try.photoprism.app/). Be careful not to upload any private pictures.

## Feature Overview ##

**Our mission is to provide the most user- and privacy-friendly solution to keep your pictures organized and accessible.** That's why PhotoPrism was built from the ground up to run wherever you need it, without compromising freedom, privacy, or functionality:

* Browse [all your photos](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/organize/browse/) and [videos](https://try.photoprism.app/library/videos) without worrying about [RAW conversion, duplicates or video formats](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/settings/library/)
* Easily find specific pictures using [powerful search filters](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=flower%20color%3Ared)
* Recognizes [the faces of your family and friends](https://try.photoprism.app/library/people)
* [Automatic classification](https://try.photoprism.app/library/labels) of pictures based on their content and location
* [Play Live Photos](https://try.photoprism.app/library/live) by hovering over them in [albums](https://try.photoprism.app/library/albums) and [search results](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=type%3Alive)
* Since the [User Interface](https://try.photoprism.app/) is a [Progressive Web App](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps),
  it provides a native app-like experience, and you can conveniently install it on the home screen of all major operating systems and mobile devices
* Includes four high-resolution [World Maps](https://try.photoprism.app/library/places) to bring back the memories of your favorite trips
* Metadata is extracted and merged from Exif, XMP, and other sources such as Google Photos
* Many more image properties like [Colors](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=color:red), [Chroma](https://try.photoprism.app/library/browse?view=cards&q=mono%3Atrue), and [Quality](https://try.photoprism.app/library/review) can be searched as well
* Use [PhotoSync](https://link.photoprism.app/photosync) to securely backup iOS and Android phones in the background
* WebDAV clients such as Microsoft's Windows Explorer and Apple's Finder [can connect directly](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/) to PhotoPrism, allowing you to open, edit, and delete files from your computer as if they were local

Being completely [**self-funded and independent**](https://link.photoprism.app/membership), we can promise you that we will [never sell your data](https://www.photoprism.app/privacy) and that we will [always be transparent](https://www.photoprism.app/terms) about our software and services. Your data will never be shared with Google, Amazon, Microsoft or Apple unless you intentionally upload files to one of their services. 🔒

## Getting Started ##
<img align="right" width="25%" src="https://www.photoprism.app/user/pages/01.home/03._screenshots/iphone-maps-hybrid-540px.png">

Step-by-step installation instructions for our self-hosted [community edition](https://www.photoprism.app/get) can be found 
on [docs.photoprism.app](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/) -
all you need is a Web browser and [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) to run the server. 
It is available for Mac, Linux, and Windows.

The [stable version](https://docs.photoprism.app/release-notes/) and development 
preview have been built into a single [multi-arch image](https://link.photoprism.app/docker-hub) for 64-bit AMD, Intel,
and ARM processors. That means, [Raspberry Pi](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/raspberry-pi/) 3 / 4 owners can pull 
from the same repository, enjoy the exact same functionality, and can follow the regular 
[installation instructions](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/docker-compose/) 
after going through a short list of [requirements](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/raspberry-pi/).

Existing users are advised to update their `docker-compose.yml` config based on our examples
available at [dl.photoprism.app/docker](https://dl.photoprism.app/docker/).

## Support Our Mission 💎 ##

**PhotoPrism is 100% self-funded and independent.** Your [continued support](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) helps us [provide more features to the public](https://www.photoprism.app/oss/faq#what-functionality-is-generally-available), release [regular updates](https://docs.photoprism.app/release-notes/), and remain independent!

Our members enjoy additional features, including access to [interactive world maps](https://try.photoprism.app/library/places), and can join our private chat room to connect with [our team](https://www.photoprism.app/about/team) and other members. We currently have the following membership options:

- [GitHub Sponsors](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsor) is priced in USD and also offers [one-time donations](https://link.photoprism.app/donate)
- [Patreon](https://link.photoprism.app/patreon) is priced in Euro and also offers yearly payments
- Stripe will be available this year, so you can sign up directly in the app

You are welcome to [contact us](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) for change requests, account details, and business partnerships.

[Become a Member ›](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) [Contact Us ›](https://www.photoprism.app/contact)

### Why Your Support Matters ###

- Your continued support helps us provide regular updates and remain independent, so we can fulfill our mission and protect your privacy
- Sustained funding is key to quickly releasing new features requested by you and other community members
- Being self-funded and independent, we can personally promise you that we will never sell your data and that we will always be transparent about our software and services

Please also leave [a star](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/stargazers) on GitHub if you like this project. It provides additional motivation to keep going.

**A big thank you to all current and past sponsors, whose generous support has been and continues to be essential to the success of the project!**

[View Sponsors ›](SPONSORS.md) [View Credits ›](https://docs.photoprism.app/credits/)

## Getting Support ##

Visit [docs.photoprism.app/user-guide](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/) to learn how to [sync](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/sync/webdav/), [organize](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/library/), and [share](https://docs.photoprism.app/user-guide/share/) your pictures. If you need help installing our software at home, you can [join us on Reddit](https://link.photoprism.app/reddit), ask in our [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat), or post your question in [GitHub Discussions](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions).

Common problems can be quickly diagnosed and solved using the [Troubleshooting Checklists](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) in [Getting Started](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/). Eligible [members](https://link.photoprism.app/membership) are also welcome to [email us for technical support](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) and personalized advice.

## Upcoming Features and Enhancements ##

Our [Project Roadmap](https://link.photoprism.app/roadmap) shows what tasks are in progress and what features will be implemented next. You are invited to give ideas you like a thumbs-up, so we know what's most popular.

Be aware that we have a zero-bug policy and do our best to help users when they need support or have other questions. This comes at a price though, as we can't give exact release dates for new features. Our team receives many more requests than can be implemented, so we want to emphasize that we are in no way obligated to implement the features, enhancements, or other changes you request. We do, however, appreciate your feedback and carefully consider all requests.

**Because sustained funding is key to quickly releasing new features, we encourage you to support our mission by [signing up as a sponsor](https://link.photoprism.app/sponsor) or purchasing a [commercial license](https://www.photoprism.app/teams). Ultimately, that's what's best for the product and the community.**

## GitHub Issues ⚠️ ##

We kindly ask you not to report bugs via GitHub Issues **unless you are certain to have found a fully reproducible and previously unreported issue** that must be fixed directly in the app. Thank you for your careful consideration!

- When reporting a problem, always include the software versions you are using and other information about your environment such as [browser, browser plugins](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/browsers/), operating system, [storage type](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#storage), [memory size](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#memory), and [processor](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/performance/#server-cpu)
- Note that all issue **subscribers receive an email notification** from GitHub whenever a new comment is added, so these should only be used for sharing important information and not for discussions, questions or expressing personal opinions
- [Contact us](https://www.photoprism.app/contact) or [a community member](https://link.photoprism.app/discussions) if you need help, it could be a local configuration problem, or a misunderstanding in how the software works
- This gives our team the opportunity to [improve the docs](https://docs.photoprism.app/getting-started/troubleshooting/) and provide best-in-class support to you, instead of handling unclear/duplicate bug reports or triggering a flood of notifications by responding to comments

## Connect with the Community ##

Follow us on [Twitter](https://link.photoprism.app/twitter) and join the [Community Chat](https://link.photoprism.app/chat)
to get regular updates, connect with other users, and discuss your ideas. Our [Code of Conduct](https://www.photoprism.app/code-of-conduct) explains the "dos and don’ts" when interacting with other community members.

Feel free to contact us at [hello@photoprism.app](mailto:hello@photoprism.app) with anything that is on your mind. We appreciate your feedback! Due to the high volume of emails we receive, our team may be unable to get back to you immediately. We do our best to respond within five business days or less.

## Every Contribution Makes a Difference ##

We welcome [contributions](CONTRIBUTING.md) of any kind, including blog posts, tutorials, testing, writing documentation, and pull requests. Our [Developer Guide](https://docs.photoprism.app/developer-guide/) contains all the information necessary for you to get started.

----

*PhotoPrism® is a [registered trademark](https://www.photoprism.app/trademark). By using the software and services we provide, you agree to our [Terms of Service](https://www.photoprism.app/terms), [Privacy Policy](https://www.photoprism.app/privacy), and [Code of Conduct](https://www.photoprism.app/code-of-conduct). Docs are [available](https://link.photoprism.app/github-docs) under the [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/); [additional terms](https://github.com/photoprism/photoprism/blob/develop/assets/README.md) may apply.*
