PhotoPrism® Digital Assets License
==================================

Michael Mayer and his legal successors („PhotoPrism“) hereby grant you a non-exclusive,
non-transferable right to use the Digital Assets separately accompanying the software,
embedded in the documentation, or provided for download — such as icons, graphics, fonts,
wallpapers, videos, sounds, models, and sample files („Digital Assets“) — as part of the
Official Software Distribution, unless otherwise noted.

Because some Digital Assets are licensed to us only for direct distribution, we cannot
redistribute them under a more permissive license for other purposes. If the author or
copyright holder has not released them under a permissive license, you must obtain a
license before using them in your own work, whether commercial or non-commercial in
nature.

PhotoPrism’s Brand Assets — including trademarks, logos, icons, designs, fonts, products,
services, and any other brand features and elements, whether registered or unregistered
(„Brand Assets“) — are proprietary assets.

Third parties, including licensees, may never claim ownership of PhotoPrism's Brand Assets
or brands confusingly similar to PhotoPrism's Brand Assets in any way, including, without
limitation, as a trademark, service mark, company name or designation, domain name, social
media profile/handle, or in any other manner, see https://photoprism.app/trademark.

THESE DIGITAL ASSETS ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE,
NONINFRINGEMENT, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

WE WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES ASSOCIATED WITH THESE DIGITAL ASSETS, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION ORDINARY, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DAMAGES RELATING TO LOST DATA OR LOST PROFITS, EVEN IF WE
HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If the disclaimer provided above cannot be given local legal effect according to its terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver
of all civil liability in connection with these Digital Assets, unless a warranty or
assumption of liability was provided in return for a fee.

In the event that any provision is found to be unenforceable by a court or other competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions hereof shall remain in full force and effect.
